# CMPT 485 Course Code Repository

## Credits:

Based on code from http://www.opengl-tutorial.org

## Build instructions: 


See Tutorial #1 for build instructions using CMake


## Instructions for submitting assignments


1.  Download and install Git from http://git-scm.com/downloads

2.  Run the CMake and generate the build files, you should tell cmake to use a directory titled _build_, in the root of the repository (.../cmpt485/build) to generate the build files in. This directory is by default ignored, and therefor won't be included in your results going to be submitted to moodle.

3.  Run Git Bash if you are under Windows, or start Terminal if you are under OSX or Linux

4.  In order to clone the repository for the first time, go to the target directory (using _cd_ command) you want the project reside in, and run the following command

`git clone https://git.cs.usask.ca/graphics/cmpt485.git`

5.  Each assignment branch is designed for that specific assignment, that means if you intend to work on assignment2 you should work with assignment2 branch. In order to switch between assignments use the following command

`git checkout branch_name`

for example:

`git checkout assignment2`

To see the list of all available branches run the command

`git branch`

6.  After switching to the assignment branch and working on the assignment you need to generate the diff file to submit it on the moodle, the diff is the file describing all the changes you have made to the initial state of that assignment branch. When the marker receives the diff file, s/he can apply that to his/er own clone of repository and then run the project and mark your changes. Before generating the diff file, you can run the 'git status' and or 'git diff' commmands to see what changes you've made to the repository. In order to generate the diff file first run the following command to stage all the changes you've made to the code base.

`git add -A :/`

Then run the following command to generate the diff from all staged changes. Remember to change the _filname.diff_ to _your-nsid.diff_ when submitting to moodle.

`git diff --staged --binary > filename.diff`

7.  After generating the diff file, you are ready to submit that to the moodle. You can open the diff file with a text editor or diff viewer to see the content of it. If you use the Sublime text editor, it would highlight its syntax automatically. But remember to make no changes to the content of this file manually. This file should be sent exactly the same way it is generated by the git command, otherwise you might break the patching process on the marker side. Don't worry about giving a report on which files and lines you've changed, the diff file would describe that clearly. Even if you've added some binary files like images for textures, their content would be in the diff file. When the marker apply the diff, s/he'd receive all those new or changed files.

8.  Whenever you start working on your assignment run the following command to get the latest updates to the repository, this way if the instructor makes any changes to the code base (although improbable), you would receive those changes. This of course preserves your previous changes and merge them with the new updates.

`git pull origin branch_name`

9.  If you are not happy with your changes, and wanted to restore the branch to its initial up to date state, you can use the following command

`git fetch origin; git reset --hard origin/branch_name`

10. Whenever you switch between branches, make sure to get the latest update of that branch, which probably makes a change to the CMakeList.txt, in this case it is necessary to regenerate your project files in .../cmpt485/build, otherwise you won't find the newly added files in your project file.

11. Submit you diff file to moodle, along with a short description of the status of your assignments, i.e. whether or not all parts of the assignment are completed

12. These are the steps that the TA will follow (on Linux) when marking your assignment, e.g. for assignment1:

`cd cmpt485`

`git fetch origin; git reset --hard origin/assignment1`

`git clean -fd`

`git apply FirstnameLastname.diff`

`mkdir build`

`cd build`

`ccmake ../`

`make`

`cd ../src`

`./part1`
